docs/setup_new_nightcode.md, before:

# Install Nightcode

## Download Nightcode

Nightcode is an integrated development environment (IDE) for
creating Clojure programs. You can download it from:

https://sekao.net/nightcode/

## Setup Nightcode on Windows

In your brower can you can right click on the nightcode jar file
and select "open containing folder"

![Open containing folder](img/new/nc2.png)

Once you are viewing the Downloads folder in Explorer, right
click on the jar file and select **Send to | Desktop (create shortcut)**

![Create Shortcut](img/new/nc3.png)

On Windows you can double click on jar files to launch them..
So double click on the nightcode jar:

![Launch nightcode](img/new/nc4.png)

Finally you can open the **clojure-getting-started** project we worked on
in Nightcode:

![Open clojure-getting-started](img/new/nc5.png)

## Setup Nightcode on Mac

Change directories to your `~/bin` directory and download Nightcode,
then download the nightcode launcher from our website.

````
clojurista@mylaptop $ cd ~/bin
clojurista@mylaptop $ curl -LO https://github.com/oakes/Nightcode/releases/download/0.4.7/nightcode-0.4.7-standalone.jar
clojurista@mylaptop $ curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/clojurebridge-minneapolis/installfest/experimental/docs/nightcode
clojurista@mylaptop $ chmod +x nightcode
clojurista@mylaptop $ cd ..
clojurista@mylaptop $ nightcode
````

Since the `~/bin` directory is already in your **PATH** you can
start nightcode from anywhere with `nightcode`.

Now you can open the **clojure-getting-started** repo in Nightcode (see above).


## Setup Nightcode on Linux

The setup for Linux is the same as for Mac!

You _might_ encounter a problem where Nightcode seems to
crash after startup... If that happens you probably need
to be running a compositing Window Manager. You can add this
feature to your current environment by adding this package:

````
# apt-get install xcompmgr
````

And starting the compositing manager before Nightcode:

````
clojurista@mylaptop $ xcompmgr &
clojurista@mylaptop $ nightcode
````

Now you can open the **clojure-getting-started** repo in Nightcode (see above).

Commit message:

Updated Nightcode install on Mac (Issue #12)

docs/setup_new_nightcode.md, after:

# Install Nightcode

## Download Nightcode

Nightcode is an integrated development environment (IDE) for
creating Clojure programs. You can download it from:

https://sekao.net/nightcode/

## Setup Nightcode on Windows

In your brower can you can right click on the nightcode jar file
and select "open containing folder"

![Open containing folder](img/new/nc2.png)

Once you are viewing the Downloads folder in Explorer, right
click on the jar file and select **Send to | Desktop (create shortcut)**

![Create Shortcut](img/new/nc3.png)

On Windows you can double click on jar files to launch them..
So double click on the nightcode jar:

![Launch nightcode](img/new/nc4.png)

Finally you can open the **clojure-getting-started** project we worked on
in Nightcode:

![Open clojure-getting-started](img/new/nc5.png)

## Setup Nightcode on Mac

On the Nightcode homepage select the download for Mac. Open the Downloads
directory in a Finder window and double click the Nightcode-2.1.5.dmg file.
Drag the Nightcode app into the Applications directory.

![Mac Install](img/new/nc_mac0.png)

Nightcode can now be launched from Finder, Launchpad, or Spotlight. Note
that you will see the following prompt the first time Nightcode is opened,
click **Open**.

![Open Prompt](img/new/nc_mac1.png)

Now you can open the **clojure-getting-started** repo in Nightcode (see above).


## Setup Nightcode on Linux

The setup for Linux is the same as for Mac!

You _might_ encounter a problem where Nightcode seems to
crash after startup... If that happens you probably need
to be running a compositing Window Manager. You can add this
feature to your current environment by adding this package:

````
# apt-get install xcompmgr
````

And starting the compositing manager before Nightcode:

````
clojurista@mylaptop $ xcompmgr &
clojurista@mylaptop $ nightcode
````

Now you can open the **clojure-getting-started** repo in Nightcode (see above).
