docs/setup.md, before:

Installfest
===========

## Requirements

In order to run Clojure and the tools we'll be using for
programming we need to install some free software on your laptop.
Most modern laptops should work just fine. Just to be sure
the requirements for each operating system are...

* **Mac OS X**<br/>
  Any Intel-based computer running Mac OS X 10.8 (Mountain Lion) or later.

* **Windows**<br/>
  Windows 7 or later

* **Linux**<br/>
  Any recent distribution that includes **openjdk-8-jdk** or can install
  [JDK 8 from Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) should be fine.

If you don't have access to a laptop or your laptop doesn't meet
the requirements above we have a few spare laptops that you can borrow.

## What we are installing

By the end of these instructions, you will have the following installed:

* **Java** the platform atop which Clojure runs
* **Leiningen** a build tool for Clojure programs
* **Atom** a text editor
* **Git** a program for saving and sharing your program's code (included in the Heroku Toolbelt)
* The **Heroku** Toolbelt: a program for publishing your Clojure application on the web

And you will have:

* An account on **Slack** so you can chat with students and volunteers online
* Copied the example chat application with ````git clone````
* Pushed your copy of the chat application to Heroku so it's *live on the Internet*

## Instructions for all

These instructions apply to all platforms: Mac, Windows and Linux:

* [Slack](slack.md)
* [Atom](atom.md)
* [Github](github.md)

## Instructions by operating system

Choose your operating system to get setup instructions:

* [Mac OS X](setup_osx.md)
* [Windows 7](setup_win7.md)
* [Windows 8](setup_win8.md)
* [Windows 10](setup_win10.md)
* [Linux](setup_ubuntu.md)

Commit message:

Changes prior to the student reminder e-mail
Grammar fix on Installfest page
Update Saturday agenda.
Mention that git_intro.md is under construction.
Removed more references to branching in Track 1
Added the Code of Conduct

Signed-off-by: Tom Marble <tmarble@info9.net>

docs/setup.md, after:

Installfest
===========

## Requirements

In order to run Clojure and the tools we'll be using for
programming we need to install some free software on your laptop.
Most modern laptops should work just fine. Just to be sure
the requirements for each operating system are...

* **Mac OS X**<br/>
  Any Intel-based computer running Mac OS X 10.8 (Mountain Lion) or later.

* **Windows**<br/>
  Windows 7 or later

* **Linux**<br/>
  Any recent distribution that includes **openjdk-8-jdk** or installing
  [JDK 8 from Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) should be fine.

If you don't have access to a laptop or your laptop doesn't meet
the requirements above we have a few spare laptops that you can borrow.

## Code of Conduct

Everyone should understand that participation in ClojureBridge
means agreeing to the Code of Conduct:

### Bridge Foundry Code of Conduct

We seek to create a community of software developers that are
reflective of the diversity in the general population. To that end, we
are dedicated to creating welcoming and friendly learning
environments.

All participants agree to the following:

* Everyone has something to contribute. Everyone deserves access to materials and community that will help them learn. As long as an individual can be respectful and not disruptive to other participants, they deserve to participate.
* If there is limited space and resources, anyone is welcome to replicate an event, such that more opportunities may be available. All curricula and organizing materials are open source and free. Provided that the organizer and event conform to project guidelines, we will help.
* We are dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion, native language, operating system choice or prior experience. We do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form. Sexual language and imagery is not appropriate for any conference venue, including talks. Participants violating these rules may be sanctioned or expelled from an event or virtual forum at the discretion of the organizers.

Impact matters more than intent: If you didn’t realize that your behavior would have a negative impact that is your responsibility. Problems happen when we presume that our way of being is ok with everyone, when we assume that our way of thinking or behaving is the norm. This is particularly problematic when the other person is less empowered or is a member of a minority group.


For further information see [http://bridgefoundry.org/code-of-conduct/](http://bridgefoundry.org/code-of-conduct/)

### Whom to contact

Do you have Code of Conduct concerns, questions or actions you want to discuss?

Please contact Millie Walsh ![Millie Walsh](https://secure.gravatar.com/avatar/893a40ae25a5ebcf06a7f09ce45c8470?s=200)

## What we are installing

By the end of these instructions, you will have the following installed:

* **Java** the platform atop which Clojure runs
* **Leiningen** a build tool for Clojure programs
* **Atom** a text editor
* **Git** a program for saving and sharing your program's code (included in the Heroku Toolbelt)
* The **Heroku** Toolbelt: a program for publishing your Clojure application on the web

And you will have:

* An account on **Slack** so you can chat with students and volunteers online
* Copied the example chat application with ````git clone````
* Pushed your copy of the chat application to Heroku so it's *live on the Internet*

## Instructions for all

These instructions apply to all platforms: Mac, Windows and Linux:

* [Slack](slack.md)
* [Atom](atom.md)
* [Github](github.md)

## Instructions by operating system

Choose your operating system to get setup instructions:

* [Mac OS X](setup_osx.md)
* [Windows 7](setup_win7.md)
* [Windows 8](setup_win8.md)
* [Windows 10](setup_win10.md)
* [Linux](setup_ubuntu.md)
